Before we completely transition from
analytic methods to all the things we need
to think about after our analysis is
complete, it's useful to take a step back
and remind ourselves what types of
problems we're trying to solve and
what the business drivers are behind them.
Our objective is start shifting our
focus back from the technical aspects of
our analytical process to the contextual
nature of underlying problem.
We also want to reinforce the connection
between some of the methods you
may have seen in other courses and the
real world problems they try to address.
We obviously can't cover every possible
type of analysis you might come
across in your organization.
But we'll try to present a cross section
of problems that occur frequently
in many industries.
In this video,
we'll look at what we might call classic
problems that have a significant
history in business functions.
Specifically, we'll discuss segmentation,
direct marketing and
customer lifetime value,
statistical process control, routing and
inventory management, queuing and
staffing, and credit risk and fraud.
In a separate video, we'll focus on
some emergent problems and analytical
approaches associated with technologies
like the web, mobile and social media.
For this overview, we'll keep our
discussion at a pretty high level.
We'll take each idea, describe what it is,
talk about why we actually do it,
then list a few of the analytical methods
that we might apply to make it happen.
For some of our examples,
we'll look simple visualizations
that might accompany the analysis.
This should help get you thinking about
some of the topics coming later in
the course.
Let's start with segmentation.
The idea behind segmentation
is pretty simple.
We're basically trying to find
groups of customers or events or
items with similar characteristics and
grouping them together.
Generally, we want elements in our
groups to be as similar as possible to
each other.
But at the same time, we want the groups
themselves to be different enough that it
makes sense to treat them differently.
When elements within a group are similar,
we call that homogeneity within groups.
And when the groups themselves
are different from each other,
we call that heterogeneity between groups.
A good segmentation has both properties.
There are many uses of segmentation.
A business may develop different products
to serve the needs of different customer
segments.
It may use different
communication methods or
channels to sell the same
products to different customers.
Some businesses even model their
organizational structures after
the segments they intend to serve.
In most cases, the business is trying to
optimize the effectiveness and efficiency
of their activities by customizing
them in some way to the market.
Segmentation helps to inform
how that should be done.
Segmentation can also be used as
a first step in a larger analysis.
For example, I might use customer segments
as inputs to a statistical model,
like a regression, to predict
some type of behavior, whether or
not I intend to act on that
prediction by segment.
There are quite a few analytic
methods that can be applied to
execute a segmentation analysis, including
factor analysis and principal components
analysis, clustering, and decision trees
or other propensity modeling techniques.
For example, we might use a clustering
technique that yields an output like this.
Here we have three natural groupings
of elements on two dimensions.
We could consider treating these
groups as separate segments in our
business activities.
Let's move on to some applications related
to marketing and customer lifetime value.
There's obviously a lot of different
things that a marketing organisation might
do, but one common need is the ability to
predict whether a specific customers will
exhibit some behavior of interest.
Such as purchasing a product,
taking an offer, changing products or
leaving to go somewhere else.
Usually, the reason we want to
understand these behaviors is so
we can interact with customers in
a more efficient and effective way.
It can be expensive to
reach out to customers, and
we'd rather spend our limited resources
reaching out to those who are most likely
to respond in the way we want them to.
Even when communication is relatively
cheap, like email or text messages,
marketers want to avoid overloading
customers with too many messages, and
therefore seek to only provide customers
with the most relevant information.
Like segmentation, we can also use
predictions as inputs to larger analyses.
One example of this is
customer lifetime value.
A customer lifetime value calculation
basically just adds up all the revenues
and costs associated with
the customer over time, and
expresses them in today's dollars.
It's usually represented by
a discounted cashflow equation
that looks something like this, where t is
the time period and r is a discount rate.
We can use event predictions to drive
certain revenue or cost producing events.
But one of the most common uses is to
make predictions on how long a customer's
lifetime will actually be, or what
the value of n should be in this equation.
Methods for even prediction can include
propensity modeling techniques like
logistic regression, decision trees or
neural nets, survival analysis, or
even simple historical observation.
The use of deep analytics in the practice
of marketing is almost a given in today's
organizations.
However, some of the earliest widespread
uses of data analytics were in operations
and manufacturing, where techniques
were applied to help businesses improve
efficiency and effectiveness.
Statistical process control, for example,
has been in use since the 1920s.
Originally applied to
manufacturing processes,
the basic idea around statistical process
control is that we establish a process,
measure the natural
variability in that process.
Then set up a monitoring mechanism that
alerts us if the process changes for
some reason.
Often this technique is used as part of
a larger objective of process improvement
where we understand a process,
reduce the variation in the process.
Then work to improve the overall
level of performance in that process.
For example, lets say we wanted to measure
the percentage of defects at particular
stage in an assembly line.
And we wanted to be alerted if
there is a spike in defects or
if the average percentage moved up or
down over time.
We could use statistical process control
to help detect these changes in pursuit
of quality control.
Similarly, we could use the same
technique on quantity measures,
like the amount of material
required to accomplish a job.
Or even time, like how long it
takes to accomplish a task or
to complete a process as a whole.
Again, while this technique
originated in manufacturing,
it can really be applied
to any repeatable process.
And there are applications in just about
every industry in functional area.
As far as methods go,
those used in statistical process control
are actually pretty straightforward.
Normally it involves application of
classical statistics and sampling methods,
coupled with some specific ways of looking
at the data, like this control chart.
Here we just have the value of
some measurement over time.
The lines at top and bottom are called
upper and lower control limits,
and are calculated using basic statistics
derived from historical measurements.
Early in the series,
there’s some natural variation in
the measure around the center line.
But there's also one point
that exceeds the upper limit.
Later in the series, it appears that
there has been a shift of some sort of
in a process and where the points
consistently lie below the center line.
A second class of operational problems
involve the management and movement of
physical items, like raw materials,
inventories, and finished products.
Generally speaking,
businesses want to make sure they have
all the right items in the right
place at the right time.
But they also want to minimize cost and
the certain constraints on production,
storage, and transportation that
restrict what they're able to do.
Examples of common problems in this area
include the newsvendor problem, where we
need to choose how much inventory to buy
based on expected patterns in sales.
The transportation problem,
where we must decide how to route product
from one set of production points to a set
of consumption points in
the most optimal way.
And the assignment problem,
where we need to allocate materials or
tasks to machines or other resources
to allow the most efficient processing.
The methods used to solve these problems,
broadly fall into prescriptive
analytics category.
And include optimization and simulation
techniques like linear programming,
Monte Carlo analysis, queuing analysis,
as well as a variety of specific
mathematical methods and procedures.
A closely related class of problems
involves optimizing the movement,
activities, and positioning of people.
There are all sorts of problems
that fall into this category.
Here are some examples, how many people to
staff at a call center or retail store.
How to set up the order line
at a fast food restaurant.
Where to deploy sales
personnel across regions.
What level and
mix of healthcare professionals
should be present at a hospital.
How to balance visitor traffic across an
amusement park over the course of the day.
The business objectives around these
type of problems can be similar to those
involving objects, including maximizing
efficiency and throughput and
minimizing cost.
However, they also tend
to evolve a customer or
employee satisfaction component, as well.
Most companies want to have happy
customers and happy employees.
And there are variety of
ways in which staffing and
movement can impact just
how happy those people are.
For customers,
we may want to minimize wait times or
ensure that the right resources
are available to help the right customers.
On the employee side, we may seek to avoid
task monotony or best ensure that people's
jobs are well-matched to their skills or
other career objectives.
As you might imagine,
there are applications for
this type of problem solving in
many organizational functions,
including operations, customer care,
sales, and human resources.
The methods we use to solve these
problems are also similar to those we
apply to the movement of objects,
although the data elements we optimize or
the constraints that apply
might be somewhat different.
Again, optimization in simulation
techniques and application of queuing
theory are at the core of
the analytics we apply these cases.
There are also some pretty innovative ways
of visualizing these type of analysis,
including be able to
watch how costumers move
through a 3D rendered
environment over time.
The last set of common problems we'll
discus in this video are around
credit risk and fraud detection.
These problems are dominant in
industries like financial services, but
are used in pretty much any
company that extends credit
by performing services
in advance of payment.
Or where there is opportunity for
people to financially take advantage
of an organization via fraud.
Some prominent examples are in
telecommunications, utilities,
insurance and healthcare.
The business objectives here
can be pretty straightforward.
First, we're trying to balance
the way we provide products and
services to the market with the risk
that we might not get paid for fully for
those products and services.
Based on the credit
worthiness of an individual,
an organization might structure
its products differently.
For example, a utility might require a
deposit, or a mortgage company might offer
lower or higher interest
rate to different borrowers.
We might also want to try to detect
when something fishy is going on.
This can mean different things
in different organizations.
One familiar example is with credit cards,
where mechanisms are put in place to
detect abnormal purchasing behavior, and
may even put an automatic hold on the
account when certain activity is observed.
Typically, a company extending credit will
develop their own risk models based on
both internal data and
external credit bureau data.
The methods involved are generally
predictive analytics methods
like logistic regression,
decision trees, or neural networks.
For fraud detection,
we might employ predictive models, but
we may also use things like descriptive
statistics, statistical process control or
other data driven heuristics to trigger
interventions based on observed activity.
So that's a quick spin through some of
the more well established type of analytic
problems you might see in
the world of business.
Again, they only represent a fraction
of all the applications of analytics
that are out there.
However, this is a pretty good starting
set to get us thinking about how
we visualize and interpret analysis,
how we develop strategies and
tactics to address the underlying
business problems, and how we communicate
both the results of our analysis and
our proposal for how to take action.